Trying to figure out, trying to figure out, trying
to figure out what has gone wrong with this machine
hoping that everything is now working.
Okay, we're talking about your freshman football
time. Manning Smith was the... He was the head
freshman football coach, and he used mostly, if
not all, graduate students. For example, there
was a guy here named Dog Dawson. Do you remember
him? Well, I remember him. Well, he had played
varsity football the year before, but he was like a
five-year student. And he was the... assistant, a
guy named Bill Buchanan was. So mostly all of them,
Jim Connection was one. They were the coaches. All
we did as freshmen was just gun fodder. Gun fodder
for the varsity. And you all played five games, six
games? Yeah, we played Allen Academy and we played
Arlington. And we played probably five or six
games, yeah. The Hey, the
Varsity Stars, let's see, Kimbrough was gone,
wasn't he? Kimbrough was gone. The Varsity Stars
were Mosier. Knatzer. Pugh. No, Pugh was gone.
Pugh was gone. Bill Knatzer from Denison. Yeah.
Jim Sterling from... Oh, yeah. ...Pex O'Connor.
Mm-hmm. Um... Whiskey Cure was one of them. And you
all ran offensively, what was the formation?
Single wing, double wing, and box. Pete hadn't
come in yet. And you ran,
pass plays would be one out of four. TC is the only
one that threw much of the ball. The workouts
normally began about what? Describe a typical
workout. not on a Monday or Friday. We would go out
and first they'd loosen up in calisthenics, which
they don't do much anymore, they do stretching.
We'd do calisthenics, then we'd break down into
offense would go over and rush home. Line
blocking, the punters would punt, the pass
receivers and the quarterback would practice
catching and throwing the ball, and then they'd
Forrest would call up, we need so many guys, they'd
send us over there. Haskell, Bear Bryant did a lot
of things, but I think what he did mostly, he
changed the whole routine of workouts. He went to
the county fair times. We didn't have that before.
He had a group over here doing this, a group doing
this. Now, for example, if we had blocking,
one-on-one blocking linemen, we'd have
one-on-one blocking everybody that's standing
watching. Mm-hmm. or if we had punting or pass, you
see, he broke it down to where everybody was
working all the time. And that dad that got out into
all the high schools, that was the biggest change,
I think, that and defense, pursuit and defense.
Used to, if you got through the first line at the
last green, you wasn't going to get tackled by a
line. But Brian got pursuit. What kind of defense
did y'all run? 6-2-2-1? What they did in those
days, believe it or not, the center would come up
the line of skinnings And he'd wait seven-man
line, six-man line, five-man line. The defense
set up. Long time before the huddle got up or what
they don't do anymore. So they knew what you could
do. And then whatever defense he called, that
changed. what kind of blocking you were going to do
on the guy. And they always did two on one blocking.
High and low. Hit them high, hit them low, hit them
low, let them go, that kind of stuff. It was not this
brush blocking or just getting them out of the way.
You had to put your man on the ground, which was very
difficult to do. And there were, what, six or seven
varsity coaches? Yeah, probably, yeah. Bill
James, Uncle Bill James, he was the line coach. And
one of these guys, he's kind of like a man named Bill
Lance. Uncle Bill had come here from Texas. And he
was the one that owned Camp Stewart, this boy's
camp down in Kerrville, the famous camp down
there. That was his camp. So he just coached and he
wasn't even faculty. And then we had some others
there. I think what happened here, the war was on.
And one day a guy would be here and the next day he's
gone. We'd have students one day and they'd be
gone. So they kept moving them all out. Older
coaches like Norton and Uncle Bill don't always
stay here. Marty Caroll. Where were you when you
heard the news on December 7th? I was walking back
from D. Warefield House. One Sunday, I'd been at a
clean basket. Did somebody tell you or what? I
guess somebody said we're in war. Of course, we
knew the war was coming. But they said to bomb Pearl
Harbor. Nobody knew where Pearl Harbor was. Well,
so what's Pearl Harbor? And where did you, after
you heard that, what did you do? Where did you go?
Well, I went on back to my dorm and went out to eat. We
just said, we weren't shocked, I don't think,
because we kind of felt like we were going to get in
the war. But we didn't know. We were so dumb. We
didn't know what war was. We'd never been in war. We
didn't know what the aftermath was going to be. And
a lot of guys got excited. You know, gung-ho. I want
to go. I want to go. I want to go. They didn't know the
horrors of war. All right. Let's go back to this
freshman year. Other than being a room orderly and
so forth, what were some other hazings? that you
endured your freshman year? Well, I don't know if
you call that. We couldn't walk on the sidewalk. We
had to walk in the street. If we were walking down
the street and we saw a member of our outfit with
somebody, we had to go over and stop. You know, I'm
outtie. I'm fish well, so-and-so, so-and-so,
so-and-so. Or if we were walking down the street
and we didn't speak to somebody, say, I didn't
speak to you and you were B Infantry, you didn't eat
my butt out. You tore my outfit. Say, oh. They would
call me. We didn't, they, upperclassmen did not
mess with other people's freshmen. We walked in
the street. Lots of times we couldn't eat until all
the upperclassmen had been served. Sometimes
we'd have to eat under the table. And what we'd do,
we'd hang around the upperclassmen. Like that
second meal, you saw my wife go. Then we could go get
kush off of these adjoining tables, but we
couldn't get it. Now you ate in Duncan. We ate in
Duncan. Had separate tables. All right. You
athletes... Did you all eat at the same time as
everyone else? Yes, same time. And you ate the same
food? A little bit better, maybe. For example,
they'd set a crate of milk at the end of our table. We
could make that. And then we had our after-meal
games in there, too, which was, you know, pretty
good. We ate the same food, but we got a little bit,
maybe a few extras in there. And as a freshman, you
had one roommate? Had one roommate, a guy named
Vernon Bell, too. And so y'all learned all of the
Aggie lingo. We had to learn all that just like
everybody else. Just like everybody else. All
right. Do you remember any notable freshman, any
notable pranks your freshman year? Yes. Air out.
You know what air out is? Sure. Okay, we had air out
where they would come through the dorm at midnight
or so and air out. Well, you climbed out the windows
and you were out for the rest of the night. And we'd
go down there to the flying center, where the golf
course is now. We'd have to sleep down there. Or one
of the things is the drownouts were terrible. What
they'd do, they'd take a Coke box, the end of a Coke
box. You know, it's got those little 12 things in
it. They'd cut a notch in it like that. And they'd
come in and throw a bucket of water in your bed and
then shut your door. And they'd hook that over the
doorknob, and you couldn't open your door. So all
the time, the upperclassmen were having the
freshmen go down, drown out some children. And of
course we got caught, we got in trouble, but the
upperclassmen, They're the ones doing it. We did
whatever they said.
Grabbed boots for us all the time, stuff like that.
We could not stay on our beds at all in the daytime.
We couldn't sit on our beds. Cesar Blue would let me
come over to his room. He was senior and an officer.
He'd let me take a nap on his bed sometimes. But you
couldn't sit on your bed. If the upperclassmen
came in, of course, you had to jump to a kitchen,
stuff like that. We just lived in horror all the
time. But it became a game. All right, now, what
outfit were you in? I was in A infantry. And that was
not an... No, I'm sorry. First year was F infantry.
And that was not an athletic outfit? It was an
athletic outfit. Oh, it was? Yeah, when I was a
freshman. Did y'all have a nickname that's
tellable in mixed company? No, they didn't do that
in those days. Oh, really? I don't remember any of
them being like that. When I was a sophomore, we
lived with our outfields. We were just not all
military. But like they do now, they have these
nicknames. I don't know. Today,
there may be A through B infantry. We had A through M
infantry. That's all there is in the Army. Three
regiments. We had A through M field artillery. We
had coastal artillery, we had the jocks, we had
ordnance, and maybe one other. We didn't have an
air force in those days. Was there any of those Army
specialties that had a higher prestige? I don't
think so. I'll tell you the meanest bunch of the
whole damn place was the band. The band? Oh, yeah.
They'd fight and drop a hat. Is that right? They'd
go by. I think a band lived over in Walton, I mean,
Longford. And Josh would go by there and make some
derogatory of the band. That's all that. The band
was tough. All right, now, normally you were up at
what island? daylight i guess i'll get six o'clock
six o'clock probably and then uh breakfast and so
you're in classes pretty well all morning yes all
right then uh this is during football season yeah
then noon meal then what what time did what did you
do between lunch and football practice But we went
to classes in the afternoon until about 3 o'clock.
Now, Stalin's did something different. Then you
went straight to practice. Then after practice,
we'd go over to Francis Hall on the campus and have
what we called a youth college school practice.
Coach Norton would come in and... and we'd have
about an hour of talking about what's going on.
They don't do that more, they do it now before, but
we'd do it at night over there. And so we got home
around eight o'clock, 8.30, best I can recall. And
then typically did y'all really do homework in
your room? Yeah, they had compulsory study, not as
probably strict as they all do now, but from like
seven to nine, There was no monkey business going
on, or seven to 10. Nobody, no, that didn't bother
me. Now, was it according to the rules for you to be
out of your room after 10 o'clock? We didn't get out
after 10 o'clock. So when you all slipped out of the
dormitory, that was rare? I never slipped out. Had
nowhere to go, had no way to go. There was no cars,
see? Okay. But you also, you had to wear your
uniform until you got 50 miles off campus. Mm-hmm.
So we had nowhere to go. I don't even remember going
to a home. I don't remember going past George Bush
South. I don't remember going to Northgate. We
just lived over in the little old bitty world of our
own. All right. That first year you came in
September. When did you go home? I went home
Christmas. You didn't go home Thanksgiving? No.
We played ball on Thanksgiving. Now the second
year I went home Thanksgiving because we played in
Texas. Yeah. So you went home Christmas. The war is
then underway. Yeah. You come back. And
you're majoring in what? Aggie. What? I'm glad you
asked that question. My friend, Darius Moser,
again. I came here. In those days, we had no
counselors at all. I came from a good school. I did
what I wanted to in high school. Big shots and all
that junk. So I told Darish, they didn't have PE,
that's what I said. I said, Darish, I ain't very
smart, and I can't afford to bust out of here. I'd be
embarrassed to death. He said, hell, take Ag Eco.
Nobody would bust out of Ag Eco. In those days, the
only job at Ag Eco was county agents. I didn't know a
thing from a cucumber.
Was there a major that a whole bunch of athletes
took? Well, some of them took, we had some
engineering, we had some under two-bit medicine,
but most of them were under agriculture, ag-eco,
most of them. Was there anybody on the football
team then when you got here who was a notable brain?
Percy Anderson. Jennings Anderson from Burnley,
Texas. You know that? He was very smart. He was
probably the smartest guy in our class. And my
roommate was a smart old boy, Vernon Bell. We had
some smart guys, yeah. But I wasn't one of them.
Let's see. Who were some of the, as you look back on
your years, who were some of the memorable
teachers, advisors, counselors? Well, Dr. Dan
Russell was. He was their bachelor. He loved
athletes.
Gosh, what's his name? I had it just on the tip of my
tongue, who later became vice chancellor. Odie
Butler. Odie, okay. Yeah, he was teaching. I think
he just started. He taught us over there. Ray
Putnam, do you remember Ray? He was one of our
teachers over there. Screaming Al Ness was one of
our teachers. And some of the others I don't
remember too well. All right. Was there anybody
you went to for advice about grade courses or
anything else? No. They didn't tell us to. Did you
go to the YMCA activities? No. On Saturday night,
what did you and your buddies do for fun? We'd go to
the free picture show up at Sammy Hall. That was it.
That's the only place we had to go. They had a campus
theater. And we go in there, well, freshman had to
sit over inside where the upperclassmen were
sitting. I was scared to go there in the first
place. They had Franklins out on 61, but we had no
way to get out. I went there one time. We didn't go
anywhere. We'd stick our head out the thing. We got
the screaming. Now, was this county dry? Yes, it
was dry. Totally dry for beer? Yes. They had that
place out up the bridge. You went to Whiskey
Bridge. Yeah, Whiskey Bridge. All right. Uh, so,
uh, Hardlickers wasn't there yet. Yes,
Hardlickers was there. Okay. But I didn't ever go
to Hardlickers. Right. Uh, now, he sold beer,
didn't he? I don't know. Well, on Thursdays we
drilled. Okay. Everybody drilled. Mm-hmm. And we
wore a white coverall, see, with that seal on the
back. I like to use them for labs, too. I wish I had
some. And we'd march down Wellborn to
Hardlickers, and then we'd cut right and go
through the woods. Most of it was just walking
through. Now, where was Hardlickers? About where
that Coffee Bridge store is? About where that
Chinese store is. I mean, that hamburger place in
the Coffee Bridge going down the Wellborn Road?
Well, best I remember, you know where the south
side apartments are over where the poor folks
live? Yeah. I think it was right there. right in
that area. I only went in at one time. The thing I
remember, they had these huge tables that
everybody from year one had cut the initials into.
Was there any place you heard of anywhere else in
town where legally or illegally people could buy
liquor? I didn't drink and I wasn't interested.
And there was no red light area that I've ever heard
of? No. They talk about these kids going down here
to to the chicken ranch? Yeah, but I didn't know
that was there. I didn't hear about that until
after chicken ranch was no more. I don't even know
how true that is. But we did have drinking. Now, the
guy said beer in the dorms, I guarantee you. Okay.
But I don't know where they got it. But it was
serious if they got caught, was it? Well, I guess. I
don't know. They said you don't drink, but, you
know, I don't know. I never had it come up. Did y'all
and youth athletes as freshmen. Y'all didn't have
to fall out before supper. In March Inn? In March
Inn. Yes, we did. We did? We did our thing in the
core. See, we were right there in the core. You
couldn't tell us and anybody else. No, but I
thought that y'all would have been practicing
still. Oh, I see what you're talking about. After
football season, we did. Yeah. No, we came in after
they'd already eaten. Yeah, we got in there late.
Okay. All right, then once the season's over,
y'all are doing exactly everything everybody
else is doing. Among your freshman recruit
colleagues, did many of them drop out of school?
Yes, quite a few. One of the biggest
disappointments I had, when they started
breaking teams down as freshmen, I think they had,
I said 100, I know there's over 100 guys, and I think
they broke down about 10 teams, and I still hadn't
been picked. Well, I was just really upset. I was
scared because I didn't want to have to leave here.
So I know that later on it turned out a lot of the guys
left, and that was early and all. But, yeah, we had
guys leaving every day. Every day people left.
Now, the varsity then had about how many on
scholarship? Oh, gosh. Let me look here. I've got a
picture of it. 40, 50? Let's look.
They have about 100. So about 50. By and large, as
far as you know, we're almost all of them on full
scholarship. As far as I know. You know why they
only need 50? Oh, everybody played one way. Both
ways. They played both ways. And you freshmen,
about how many were on scholarship? Do you know? I
have no idea. Now, was it a secret when you were a
student? Did... Did folks like you, were you
hesitant to say, oh, I'm in scholarship? No, it was
no secret. I just don't know. I figured everybody
was. But some of them might be partial. I don't
really know. No, it was no secret. It was public
knowledge. And you took, what kind of academic
level did you take that first year? I don't know,
but I would guess around 12, 14, somewhere 15. Took
a basic course. Were there any that you remember
that first year that were either unusually easy or
unusually hard? Algebra was unusually hard. I had
to take it twice. Okay. Very hard. And what did you
wear to class? I wore a uniform. I didn't even have
to be in clothes then. And what was your attitude
about class attendance? I didn't cut class, I was
afraid to. Now here's what I did do, as you may or may
not know, they had this auditorium and they
checked roll by the inter-seat number, you know, I
guess I still stand. The last time, Mosier sent me
to sit up in his seat. He didn't come in the
instructor, he just, he wasn't even paying
attention to what it was, the seat was covered, so
Mosier got credit for it. I did that a lot. Okay. And
he was a senior? He was a senior, big dog. He's a big
dog. Okay. But you couldn't send anybody to sit in
your seat. I didn't cut class. I don't think I ever
cut class. All right. As you look back on your
courses, which courses do you remember most
fondly that you enjoyed? Speech. Speech. I loved
it. Who was Dr. Doak? And public speaking
particularly. I took that course, and I just loved
it. But that got me, oh, I was nervous. I mean, a
little scared kid. And they made us get, the
greatest thing about coming to A&M to me has two
things. They made you introduce yourself. And you
still do it today. You just automatically,
nothing here takes me more than to talk to somebody
and they don't tell me who it is. They made you speak
to everybody. And they made you, and we were not
like that when we came here. We were scared. And we
were ignorant of that. And that thing, that
personality just came out more like that. Because
you were an oddball if you didn't, and you're going
to get in all kinds of trouble if you didn't. So you
had to learn that. They don't have it today. Did you
ever hitchhike? All the time. And where, if you're
going to go home to Stephenville, where did you
catch a ride from? Eastgate. You know that story
about lining up. I understand that grades and
class rank, none of those matter. Who got there
first. Who got there first. And if you were coming
at 50th in line, you could put your suitcase down,
go pick you up, come back, and they would move it up.
And that you always were in uniform. Always. Never
assigned. No. Tell them where you were going. No.
So normally it would take you about how long to get
from here to Steubenville? Well, one time I left
here in the afternoon. I got there the next morning
at 6 o'clock. I got hung up in Clifton, Texas. What
route would you normally take? Well, I used to, I'd
go from here to Waco. And Waco, I'd go up to Clifton,
Valley Mills, Iredale, Ico. But there was no
traffic through. I found out later it's quicker if
I go from here to Fort Worth. And then go out from
Fort Worth. And I'd go that way. Did you ever have
any negative experience? Never. Never? People
looked for you. We had stations that they'd go look
for you. And, of course, the uniform was unusual in
those days, and anybody in uniform was an Aggie, so
everybody knew who the Aggies were. And do you have
any fond experiences? Well, I have one that
happened one time. I was hitchhiking in
Stephenville, and I got hung up in Clifton, Texas,
early in the afternoon. And I remember I was
standing on the corner there, and this little old
lady came by me and saw me, and she went on downtown.
You've been to Clifton, haven't you? And she came
back six o'clock and I was still standing there.
And she stopped and said, honey, why don't you come
home and suffer with me? She thought I finally got a
ride and a pickup. And he took me to Glen Rose, which
is out of the way. And I spent most of the night
there. And that's when I got home at six o'clock the
next morning. It took about 13 hours or something.
But yeah, we moved pretty fast. And you and your
buddies never worried about your safety? Never
thought about it. That's what I heard. We had to
talk. Our rules were you talk to your host if they
want to talk. If they don't talk, you don't talk,
and you do not go to sleep. And that was S.O.T. And I
understand that sometimes the car would stop and
take only one person. And other times, they'd take
as many people as they had seats. We had trucks. We
had flatbed trucks load them up. I've seen 40 guys
get on one truck. Oh, my. Now, that wiped the line
out. Oh, my. That was what was really great. Now,
was Eastgate the starting point both for going
north and south? That's right. You didn't
upstream, you know. Yeah, yeah. You went out there
if you're going to hitchhike. Yeah. Okay. Now,
there must have been a special place, say, in Fort
Worth. There was, and it was in Waco. Okay. And
there was one in Abilene. There was all over the
state of Texas. One in Austin, one in Houston. And
I've never heard of anybody in any of those other
towns trying to play any pranks on the hitchhiker.
I never had any pranks. It was just something that
everybody talked about. The people loved the
Aggies. They took a little poor little lonesome
boy down there by himself. I'd go home, and my
mother and her old friends, they'd tell so sorry
about you. You know how scroungy some of us were.
Now, were there midnight y'all practices that
freshman year? Yes, yes. All right, and did you
have any dates to those? No. So you went by
yourself. Went to Houston. I remember Houston, we
went down there when I was a freshman to play Rice,
and they had it at the Rice Hotel. Oh, my God. And the
L leaders were on top of the canopy and they called
the fire department out and broke it up and they
dispersed the whole crowd with the fire hose. Oh
boy. I've been in that one. Alright, was that a
court trip? That's a court trip. Okay. And did you,
freshman athletes, did you all march? No, not a
court trip. Okay, no. Did the Tessies come down
here? Yeah, but I never saw any of them. Now, I
remember when I was a sophomore, see, I was nearly
married to my first wife. And as a sophomore, we
lived over in 12, and I remember that 10 was emptied
out, and these girls came in there for a dance, you
know, where they'd put the curtains up and all. But
I don't remember. I never heard the testes when I
was here. But I was already taken. Yeah. All right,
that freshman year, do you remember muster? No.
Let's see. Oh, did you and your buddies ever turn on
the radio to listen to President Roosevelt's
speeches? Yes, some. Particularly that Monday
speech. Yeah, yeah. Did you listen to that one?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Infamous. Yeah, where were you?
I was up in the dorm. In the dorm? Okay. The thing
that impressed me about President Roosevelt, I
couldn't understand how a man could talk and never
say uh or oh. I didn't realize he was reading those
speeches. I thought he was fantastic. Oh, no, no
more from me. Thank you. No. A glass of water. No,
I'm doing mine. As a country kid, see, I was born in
31. He was the first person I ever heard on the radio
do formal things. So I thought he sounded so
polished, so articulate. Oh, yeah, I couldn't
understand anything. So skillful. Yeah. Let's
see. During that freshman year, what were the
highest prestige student? Band commander, corps
commander, what? Corps commander, definitely.
Corps commander. In those days, most guys, as you
know, you know all this, worked away through
school. Our battalion commander was also a yell
leader, but he also worked in the kitchen as a
kitchen employee, working his way through. Did
you ever hear a guy, Buck, did you ever hear an old
boy named Buck come over here? Where Joe Hedrick
lives. Franklin, this guy's name was Buck. He
played football here. He's the one that beat up the
Corps of Commanders. What's his first name? I
don't know. Well, I won't get into it. Anyway, he's
dead now. All right. At the end of that freshman
year, what did you do that summer? I went to work
with Burt Pop. New London, Texas. Doing what?
Rough making in the oil field. What'd you make? 75
cents. Was that good pay? That was good if you're
going to make that kind of work. We had some guys
that made a little bit more of that, but they worked
on tanks, building those huge tanks, and I wasn't
strong enough to handle those. And you were there
at New London near the site of that explosion?
Yeah, we had a camp right nearby. And then you're
back in the fall of 42. And
it's getting hairier and hairier. And let's see,
the Kitty Corps was not next year. That was next
year. All right, so that by and large, your
sophomore year, you play, what position did you
play? You were running back for first team, second
team? Well, I alternated on first team. With? Leo
Daniels and Brian Taylor. Now, we played, I played
safety on the second, on the defense. And did y'all
make any notable trips that year? We went to
Oklahoma. We went to Carpus. We played Carpus
Naval Station at Doe Rollins. Doe Rollins was
coaching. They beat the car out of us. All these old
college kids. Yeah. and we went to LSU. That's the
first time I'd ever eaten on a train. Now, y'all
picked up the train here? We picked the train up
here, and we drove it, rode it to Houston, and then
we got off, got on sleep, and went to Baton Rouge.
Yeah, went to Baton Rouge. We spent the night and
got up early and came back to Houston and then
switched to the train that comes through here
regularly and came on back home. That was usually
the routine. Now, how many times had you been on the
train before this? Well, I was in the National
Guard when I was 14, so I'd go wherever somebody
came. But it was not a fancy train like that. When we
played Oklahoma, we'd ride the train up there.
When we played Arkansas, we'd ride the train up to
Muskogee. We'd get off and then bus in because you
couldn't get to the train. How was being a
sophomore different from being a freshman? Oh, we
thought we were big shots. And we felt it. And we got
out all the hell that we had to go through as
freshmen. Did you have room orderly? No. Oh, so
sophomore didn't get that? No, I didn't. I never
had anybody. I didn't like, I tried to hurt
somebody, but I didn't have room orderly, no. I
didn't want one. That year you lived where? I lived
in dorm 12. I'm 11. Same outfit? Same outfit. Same
outfit. And the total enrollment at A&M? I'm
guessing five, maybe. I don't know. It could be
more. Did it go down?